This cookbook demonstrates how conduction warms a sphere, which density depends on pressure-temperature conditions via lookup table, and which starts falling due to phases changes taking place.

Subduction on Earth since the Proterozoic has been likely driven mostly by gravity pull of negatively buoyant slabs. While such pulling force could be built by cooling of an oceanic plate, also petrological phase changes in the subducting oceanic crust play major role. Especially, to construct self-consistent subduction models, density variations dictated by phase changes could be hardly ignored. Currently ASPECT provides possibility to implement simpler phase changes by using Clapeyron slopes, or by reading in lookup tables computed by PerpleX [ref]. However, basaltic to eclogitic phase change taking place in subducted  oceanic crust, is characterised by a temporal delay, especially in lower temperatures [e.g. van Hunen]. As lookup tables are defined in a pressure-temperature space, not including time as a third dimension, they could not directly include effects of phase change delay. A mechanism to delay such change could be essentially implement in a geodynamic software but while using lookup tables it would be highly complex and possibly computationally costly. First-order guess or a "proxy" of delay in this cookbook is similar to [Perchuk et al. 2003], i.e. phase changes taking place under certain temperature are simply ignored.

To produce the lookup tables, we use MAGEMin [ref] instead of PerpleX but use Julia script (provided in the repo) to convert tables into PerpleX format.  Functionality of the script also includes ignoring phase changes under certain temperature and filtering out (likely) unphysical values. Optionally, density in lookup tables can be also scaled as a function of near-surface porosity but this requires a bit of modification of the script.

Here say maybe something of the parameter file and results produced by it...